# Installing Node.js, Harp.js and Surge

## Installing Node (Windows)

We will now install a set of tools to enable us to work with templates in html.

First, install an application called node.js on your workstation:

- <https://nodejs.org/en/>

Download, select and install the `LTS` version (on the left). Accept all defaults during the installation.

If the installation was successful, then you will have a new command called `node` installed on your system. You can test it by entering this on a command prompt:

~~~
node -v
~~~

The response should be a version number:

~~~
v8.9.4
~~~


## Installing Node (Mac)

On Mac, the procedure is slightly different. You will first to install this tool:

- <https://brew.sh/>

And then install node with this command at the terminal:

~~~
brew install node@8
~~~

## Install Harp

If node is installed, then we can install some additional tools. Visit this site:

- <http://harpjs.com/>

Install the application harp.js application. The procedure should be relatively straightforward, just enter the this command at the prompt:

~~~
npm install -g harp
~~~

This is the same for Mac or Windows.

This will take a few minutes. To check if it installed successfully:

~~~
harp -V
~~~

It should respond with a version number:

~~~
0.25.0
~~~


# Install Surge

With node and harp installed - you will need to install:

 - <https://surge.sh/>

The simplest way to do this is to open a terminal and enter:

~~~
npm install surge -g
~~~

If successful, try to get its version:

~~~
surge -V
~~~

We should get:

~~~
0.19.0
~~~


We now have 2 key commands installed in our workstations:

- harp
- surge

We will use both of these in the remaing steps.


